# Entry 2: Research Progress
##### Brianna Peralta on November 6th, 2024 (11/6/24)

## Content: 
  After Selecting our preferred topics for our **Freedom Project** (Look at the 1st Blog for an idea what it is), we were then tasked to do more intensive research, in order to find any sort of hardware or software that is currently used in regards to our topics. As stated previously, my topic was **Writing**, so I had to find some sort of Writing Technology. I initially thought it would be tricky, seeing how the obvious pencil could just be blurted out repeatedly, but to my surprise, I got a lot more information than I thought I would. For example, I used [The University of Texas at Austin: The Evolution of Writing](https://sites.utexas.edu/dsb/tokens/the-evolution-of-writing/) to learn about _Logograms_, which was the basic form of communication, by using Words, Numbers and Symbols similar to what we use today, I used [Technologies of Writing in the Age of Print](https://folgerpedia.folger.edu/Technologies_of_Writing_in_the_Age_of_Print) to learn more about Unique Writing Tools such as Fountain Pens and Portable Devices,and I used [9 Distraction-Free Writing Devices](https://kadavy.net/distraction-free-writing-devices/) to learn about hardware such as Alpha Pads, and even editions of the Typewriter. I'm honestly grateful I got so much, even when initially I was getting barely anything. For a few of my searches, I had to adjust them, making them more specific and targeted towards my topic, which I had said previously, was **Writing**. If I had to name an example, I'd say how I had to change _Writing Hardware_, for something more specific, such as _Hardware Technology for Writing_, or _Website on Hardware for Writing_. Thanks to my changes, I successfully found more than enough information for the project!
## Engineering Design Process (EDP):
  Admittedly, I would say I'm in the middle of Stage 2, and nearing Stage 3 of the Engineering Design Process. Since I've determined that a big problem in Writing today is the fact that fewer and fewer teenagers are getting interested in writing, I want to base my inevitable project on finding any solutions to get people to write once again. I had previously suggested a website in which teens are encouraged to write genuine and heartfelt stories, while also feeling rewarded by their progress. I feel like if I were to continue on with this idea, I'd have to devise a few things: _How do I prevent any users from using Ai based websites, such as Chat GPT, from exploiting the website?_ _What should the reward for getting this far be?_ After scrolling through other media sources, I think I can confidently give an answer for the 1st of my 2 Big Questions: I've realized that Chat GPT always uses basic names such as **Laura** as a main character in its stories. Perhaps I could try to code my website to detect and flag down stories that have someone named Laura as a main character, before evaluating further. In theory, this could work, but I fear that other common names could be used in replacement, so for now, this solution will be considered in the back of my head, and I will strive to find more solutions, especially for the 2nd Question as well, mainly because I don't have any ideas as of now for rewards.
## Skills Progress:
  For the Skills I had mentioned in the 1st Blog, I must say that there has been a lot of progress with 2 Especially, those two being **Flexibility** and **Advanced Researching**. To better give updates on my 3 idealized Skills, I will be splitting them into their own categories, going in Alphabetical Order, starting from **Advanced Researching**, and ending with **Time Management**. 

#### Advanced Rearching:
  I'd say that this is the skill I excelled in the most. As mentioned during the _Content_ part of this blog, I've had to constantly adjust my search keys, in order to specifically find the correct information that I need for this project. I had to specify the field I want to talk about, which as I've already mentioned is **Writing**, as well as what I wanted as I was researching, such as whether I wanted to see mentions of Writing Software, or Writing Hardware. While I've still gotten a few websites that do end up giving me false information, or information that I already have in my notes, I do get more detailed websites. Overall, I'd say that I'm improving rather significantly. 

#### Flexibility:
  Just as I've said for Advanced Researching, I'd also say that I'm improving at a quick pace. As I'm doing my research, I still find websites that only talk about websites and apps such as Google Docs, and of course, the dreaded Chat GPT. Because of this, I realize that I need to adjust my searches, to make the progress of researching much easier for myself. I've also caught myself trying to adjust to what Teens want to see when it comes to Writing, as in all honesty, I doubt some Teens would write stories, just to write them like myself. Because of this, I'm still in the middle of devising a rewards system, which should help encourage more Young Writers. Overall, I wouldn't say I am near mastery or even advanced in this skill, but I do see myself making progress little by little, which I am thankful for.

#### Time-Management:
  Last, but not least, Time Management. I would say that this is the skill I need to work on the most, mainly because I've caught myself not managing time as well as I should be. I find myself not spending equal time with my research, and my writing for this blog. For example, I've noticed that I spend more time finding additional software and hardware for Writing, but not giving myself a lot of time to finish writing the blog. I think this is because my mind sees this and the researching process as something I can easily knock out, without stress. However, I've genuinely seen the opposite of this as true. Because of this, I want to hold myself accountable, and fix this Time Management problem, before I'm seriously penalized for sloppy work.

With everything now in the open, I will try my hardest to balance my time accordingly, so blogs such as these won't have to be rushed on the final day of its submission, and I don't have to overload myself with so much work all at once. Even with my main priority being to work on my Time-Management however, I do want to improve on my other 2 Skills. I want to be able to research topics that are related to Writing much more smoothly, and I want to adjust my previous thoughts, like the mentioned award system, and adjust my thinking to better consider what Teenagers would want as a sort of reward for their Stories. 
## Conclusions and Deep-Minded Thoughts: 
  In Conclusion, I'm now trying to hold myself accountable now that the Researching Portion of the Freedom Project is ending, and I'll now be going into the meat of the project. At the same time however, I'm excited to push myself further. Maybe with the research I've done, and my acknowledgement of what I need to do for the project, I could give myself enough time to simulate some of the ideas I've mentioned? I don't want to get ahead of myself, but believe me when I say this, I cannot wait to start working more closely on my inevitable website. Thank You so much reader for getting to this point, and I'm excited to get into Blog 3 within the next few months!

  

[Previous](entry01.md) | [Next](entry03.md)

[Home](../README.md)
