# Entry 1: Topic Selections
#### Brianna Peralta on October 7th, 2024 (10/07/24)

## Content: 
  Throughout the start of SEP (Software Engineering Program), we were tasked with selecting a topic to perform a "Freedom Project" (Specifically Creating a Website on the Topic) on. Our teacher, Mr. Mueller, recommended that we pick a topic in particular that we enjoy; it could be anything, as long as it didn't already link to Technology. I had to juggle between 3 different topics in order to pick the one I'd eventually end up with, those being either **Education, Photography, or Writing**. I initially would've picked **Photography** However, I felt as if it was too close to Technology already. A lot of the current innovations for it already have a few ties to Technology, so.. I decided to scrap it. That left **Education** and **Writing**. While **Education** could be more easy to talk about, in the end I decided to base my project on **Writing**. I feel that I am a lot stronger at writing than I even realized, and this topic helps me feel comfortable in my own body, mainly because I can't find the proper words to speak on my emotions, but with **Writing**, I am able to openly say them. That's why my topic for my SEP Freedom Project will be **Writing**.

  Now that I confirmed that **Writing** will be my topic, I had to think about what sources I would use to accurately get the previous innovations in the Writing Field. Thankfully, I already have a few that I plan to use. For Example, I plan to use ["The Evolution of Writing"](https://sites.utexas.edu/dsb/tokens/the-evolution-of-writing/) by The University of Texas, ["Technologies of Writing"](https://www.hrc.utexas.edu/exhibitions/2006/technologies-of-writing) by the Harry Ransom Center, and ["The Typewriter: An Innovation in Writing"](https://www.sfomuseum.org/exhibitions/typewriter-innovation-writing) by the SFO Museum. While I will be using more sources, these 3 I plan to use especially.

## The Engineering Design Process: 
  While considering what I'll be talking about in my website, I was also thinking about what current inventions for **Writing**. I recall how we have Typewriters, Various Stationery, even Apps dedicated for **Writing**. This is amazing progress for the topic, however, I realized that as of recent years, fewer and fewer people are choosing to write. Instead, people have been choosing to rely on sources such as ChatGPT for essays, and projects, all without studying the topic and putting in the passion that Artificial Intelligence has. With that said, I was considering trying to come up with a unique device that not only aids in writing more complex stories and articles, but also makes it feel rewarding to the writer. For now though, this is merely a W.I.P (Work in Progress). 

## Necessary Skills:
  In order to accomplish anything with my website, I would not only need to put in the proper research, but also consider what skills I'd need, or even need to improve, in order to continue on smoothly. For this, I currently have 3 Skills in mind, those being **Time-Managing**, **Advanced Researching**, and most important of all, **Flexbility**. These might be a little weird right now, but they are a lot more simple than it seems. For Time-Managing, I want to work on being able to divide up my work in ways that, while are smaller, and more plentiful, can also be done quicker than if I were to go into the main goal head on. For Advanced Researching, I plan to try and dig deeper into my topic, and try to get into the "Nitty Gritty" of it, as people say, by trying to first understand the history of **Writing**, and how it came to be today. Last but not least, I plan to be flexible by being able to adjust and go back to revise any line that I wrote that happens to not fit in with the project. I also plan to be adjustable, and be ready to have to stop myself from typing if any situation does come up, where my attention needs to be elsewhere. (Now that I think about it, this skill also ties into Time-Managing, but oh well)

## Conclusions/Take-Aways:
  Overall, I am excited to start tackling website creation over the next few months. If everything goes well, the website will run smoothly, and be more than what I even imagine now! I just need to focus on what fits my chosen topic. If you (The Reader), is still here to the end, I'd like to say thanks for reading, and I hope you enjoy the rest of the blogs as they become more available!


[Next](entry02.md)

[Home](../README.md)
